# Live-Helmet-Detection

The  higher  death  rate  in  motorbike  accidents  is  credited  to  carelessness  in  wearing  a  head  protector  (helmet) by bike riders. Identification of helmetless riders continuously is a necessary task to forestall the event of such accidents. This paper presents an automated framework to distinguish motor bikers without a head protector (helmet) from traffic observation recordings progressively. In this paper, a Single shot multibox detector (SSD) model is applied to the helmet detection problem. This model can utilize just one single CNN system to distinguish the bounding box area of motorbike and rider. When the area is chosen we classify whether  the  biker  is  wearing  or  not  wearing  a  helmet  on  real-time. Convolutional Neural Network is applied to select motorbikers among the moving objects and recognition of motorbikers  without  a  helmet.  Further  applying  the  You  only  look  once  (YOLO)  model,  I  recognize  the  License  Plates of motorbikers without a helmet. So I have applied three  models  in  all  through  the  framework,  the  custom CNN Model, SSD Model and the YOLO model. 

- Currently, I have not uploaded notebook (ipynb) file, datasets and saved model (pickle cfg) or anything else, I'll upload it soon. Meanwhile for getting any help regarding this, you can mail me on [subhptps@gmail.com](mailto:subhptps@gmail.com)

- [Go through my article](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/344109522_Live_Helmet_Detection_System_for_Detecting_Bikers_without_Helmet)
